[EDU-3404] feat: add waf rule set (#663)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/main-menu/reference/secure/edge-firewall/web-application-firewall/waf-rule-sets.mdx

---
title: WAF Rule Sets
description: Define your rule set for protection against threats with Azion Web Application Firewall (WAF).
meta_tags: waf, rule set, edge computing
namespace: documentation_products_web_application_firewall_waf_rule_sets
permalink: /documentation/products/secure/edge-firewall/web-application-firewall/rules-engine/
---

import Button from '~/components/Button.astro'

[Web Application Firewall (WAF)](/en/documentation/products/secure/edge-firewall/web-application-firewall/) provides the creation of rule sets to protect your edge applications against threat families.

> Each threat receives a score, and it’ll be processed according to the sensitivity level set. If there’s more than one case for the same threat type, score will increase. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each threat receives a score and it's processed according to the sensitivity level set. If there’s more than one case for the same threat type, the score will increase. 
```

> After creating a rule set, you also need to create a rule in Rules Engine for Edge Firewall to execute the criteria and behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After creating a rule set, you also need to create a rule in [Rules Engine for Edge Firewall](/en/documentation/products/secure/edge-firewall/rules-engine/) to execute the criteria and behavior.
```

> After creating a rule set, you also need to create a rule in Rules Engine for Edge Firewall to execute the criteria and behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating a rule set, you also need to create a rule in **Rules Engine for Edge Firewall** to execute the criteria and behavior.
```

| Directory Traversal | Prevents exploitation of vulnerability regarding insufficient sanitization of file name fields provided by users, so that characters representing shortcuts to the parent directory are passed through the file API. |
| Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) | Prevents the injection of client-side scripts into pages viewed by your visitors. |
| File Upload | Detects the attempt to upload files to the web server. |
| Evading Tricks | Protects against some coding tricks used to try to evade protective mechanisms. |
| Unwanted Access | Detects attempts to access administrative or vulnerable pages, bots, and security scanning tools. |
| Identified Attack | Prevents several types of common attacks and known vulnerabilities that should certainly be blocked. |

---

## Sensitivity levels

A request will be blocked by WAF if it obtains a score greater than or equal to the configured sensitivity level threshold. You can set one sensitivity level for each threat family.

| Sensitivity | Description and WAF sore threshold |
| ----------- | ---------------------------------- |

> | Lowest | The requisition will be considered a threat if it presents very strong evidence and receives a *score* greater than or equal to 40. This sensitivity has a lower level of protection for your applications, but it'll also avoid blocking requests with less chance of false positives. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Lowest | The request will be considered a threat if it presents very strong evidence and receives a *score* greater than or equal to 40. This sensitivity has a lower level of protection for your applications, but it'll also avoid blocking requests with less chance of false positives. |
```

> | Lowest | The requisition will be considered a threat if it presents very strong evidence and receives a *score* greater than or equal to 40. This sensitivity has a lower level of protection for your applications, but it'll also avoid blocking requests with less chance of false positives. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Lowest | The requisition will be considered a threat if it presents very strong evidence and receives a *score* equal to or greater than 40. This sensitivity has a lower level of protection for your applications, but it'll also avoid blocking requests with less chance of false positives. |
```

> | Low | The request will be considered a threat if it presents very strong evidence and receives a *score* greater than or equal to 24. This sensitivity has a lower level of protection for your applications, but it'll also avoid blocking requests with less chance of false positives. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Low | The request will be considered a threat if it presents very strong evidence and receives a score greater than or equal to 24. This sensitivity has a lower level of protection for your applications, but it'll also avoid blocking requests with less chance of false positives. |
```

> | Low | The request will be considered a threat if it presents very strong evidence and receives a *score* greater than or equal to 24. This sensitivity has a lower level of protection for your applications, but it'll also avoid blocking requests with less chance of false positives. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Low | The request will be considered a threat if it presents very strong evidence and receives a *score* equal to or greater than 24. This sensitivity has a lower level of protection for your applications, but it'll also avoid blocking requests with less chance of false positives. |
```

> | Medium | Recommended sensitivity level. The request will be considered a threat if it presents sufficient evidence and receives a *score* greater than or equal to 16. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Medium | Recommended sensitivity level. The request will be considered a threat if it presents sufficient evidence and receives a *score* equal to or greater than 16. |
```

> | High | At the slightest hint of a threat, the requisition may be blocked, even when it has a *score* greater than or equal to 8. This level of sensitivity may present more false positives if the learning stage doesn't have sufficient coverage on the variability of scenarios and uses of its application. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| High | At the slightest hint of a threat, the requisition may be blocked, even when it has a *score* equal to or greater than 8. This level of sensitivity may present more false positives if the learning stage doesn't have sufficient coverage of the variability of scenarios and uses of its application. |
```

> | Lowest | The request will be considered a threat if it presents very strong evidence and receives a *score* equal to or greater than 40. This sensitivity has a lower level of protection for your applications, but it'll also avoid blocking requests with less chance of false positives. |
> | Low | The request will be considered a threat if it presents very strong evidence and receives a *score* equal to or greater than 24. This sensitivity has a lower level of protection for your applications, but it'll also avoid blocking requests with less chance of false positives. |
> | Medium | Recommended sensitivity level. The request will be considered a threat if it presents sufficient evidence and receives a *score* equal to or greater than 16. |
> | High | At the slightest hint of a threat, the requisition may be blocked, even when it has a *score* equal to or greater than 8. This level of sensitivity may present more false positives if the learning stage doesn't have sufficient coverage of the variability of scenarios and uses of its application. |
> | Highest | At the slightest hint of a threat, the requisition may be blocked, even when it has a *score* equal to or greater than 4. This level of sensitivity may present more false positives if the learning stage doesn't have sufficient coverage of the variability of scenarios and uses of its application. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Lowest | The request will be considered a threat if it presents very strong evidence and receives a *score* equal to or greater than 40. This sensitivity has a lower level of protection for your applications, but it'll also avoid blocking requests with less chance of false positives |
| Low | The request will be considered a threat if it presents very strong evidence and receives a *score* equal to or greater than 24. This sensitivity has a lower level of protection for your applications, but it'll also avoid blocking requests with less chance of false positives |
| Medium | Recommended sensitivity level. The request will be considered a threat if it presents sufficient evidence and receives a *score* equal to or greater than 16 |
| High | At the slightest hint of a threat, the requisition may be blocked, even when it has a *score* equal to or greater than 8. This level of sensitivity may present more false positives if the learning stage doesn't have sufficient coverage of the variability of scenarios and uses of its application |
| Highest | At the slightest hint of a threat, the requisition may be blocked, even when it has a *score* equal to or greater than 4. This level of sensitivity may present more false positives if the learning stage doesn't have sufficient coverage of the variability of scenarios and uses of its application |
```

> | Highest | At the slightest hint of a threat, the requisition may be blocked, even when it has a *score* greater than or equal to 4. This level of sensitivity may present more false positives if the learning stage doesn't have sufficient coverage on the variability of scenarios and uses of its application. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Highest | At the slightest hint of a threat, the requisition may be blocked, even when it has a *score*equal to or greater than 4. This level of sensitivity may present more false positives if the learning stage doesn't have sufficient coverage of the variability of scenarios and uses of its application. |
```

---

## Rules Engine configuration

After configuring WAF's main settings with the **Threat Type Configuration** table, you must create a [Rules Engine for Edge Firewall](/en/documentation/products/secure/edge-firewall/rules-engine/) rule to execute the behavior you've configured.

This configuration guarantees your WAF settings are implemented along with other Edge Firewall security logic.

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/work-with-rules-engine/" text="go to create a rule guide" variant="secondary"></Button>

---

## Threat monitoring with Real-Time Metrics

> Once you've completed your WAF rule set configuration and your edge application is receiving incoming traffic, you can use **Real-Time Metrics** to monitor requests and threats. You'll find charts comparing how WAF processed requests and a few specific charts for differente threat families.

Author: ```suggestion
Once you've completed your WAF rule set configuration and your edge application is receiving incoming traffic, you can use **Real-Time Metrics** to monitor requests and threats. You'll find charts comparing how WAF processed requests and a few specific charts for different threat families.
```
